# help_how_to_play_overworld.txt

Akintu is a game of exploration, combat, and treasure.  When you begin
Akintu, your character will be placed in the starting town.  Towns are safe
areas that monsters cannot enter and you can safely make purchases in shops
and not have to worry about entering combat.

When you leave your home town by walking off of the edge of the screen, you
will notice monsters and bandits walking around the screen.  These monsters
indicate entire groups of monsters -- only the leader of these groups are
displayed.  If you get close to these monster groups, you will enter combat
with them.

The "Overworld" is the world of Akintu outside of combat.  This land is
filled with treasure chests.  Treasure you find in areas nearby your
starting town will be poor in quality; you will mostly find non-magical
weapons and armor and some weak potions.  Some chests might even be empty.
As you progress to more distant areas, you will find better and better
treasure.  However, powerful monsters are also attracted to powerful gear;
to be safe, you should stay nearby your starting town until you are
powerful enough to venture further.  (You can tell the level of the monster
groups by the text next to their leader's icon in the bottom right of the
screen.)

By fighting and defeating monsters in combat, you will gain experience.  
When enough experience is gained, you will progress to a new character
level.  This is referred to as "leveling up."  Each level grants new powers
and strengthens existing ones.

Equipment found in chests and purchased in towns will not do you any good
until you equip it.  (See the Inventory help page for more details.)  It is
important to have powerful gear that suits your particular strategies to 
succeed in Akintu.