# help_basic_tactics.txt

This page addresses some very simple combat tips to help you get started
in combat with Akintu.

Melee Combat

Monsters can hit hard and frequently in melee. It is easy to get 
overwhelmed. Every class has a different approach to melee combat, but one
tip that is very common is to avoid ending your turn adjacent to a monster 
with melee attacks. If they have to move at least one tile to reach you, 
they must spend some of their AP for that turn, which can result in 
sometimes only being attacked half as many times. Also, if you find 
yourself ending your turn with a few AP to spare, check to see if your 
class has an ability like Brace or Magic Guard. Those kinds of abilities 
will end your turn but also grant a small defensive bonus that can help 
reduce incoming damage.

Ranged Combat

Different weapons have different ranges. In single-player, ranged combat 
can be tough against melee enemies because they will only be in range for a
short time before closing to melee. Once in melee, using a ranged weapon 
will have a 20% chance to be "jammed" where you won't have a chance to 
attack but it will still deduct the AP. It might be worth moving back a 
couple of tiles and then attacking at that point. Spells cannot be jammed. 
The trick in solo is thus to quickly eliminate your enemies before they 
reach melee range and then consider if it is worth 5 AP to switch weapon
sets to a melee weapon. Most classes with spells have enough mana (MP) to 
cast just about whatever they'd like in single player without running out 
of mana. Remember, HP and MP are restored to 100% after combat.